#14 Special Shift nodes (#36)
Inbibo/shift_docs: docs/reference/nodes/workflow.md

![Workflow Node](../../images/nodes/workflow.png) 

### Inputs

- **File**: This plug of type [FileIn](../nodes/#plugs) is used to reference the workflow file (*.sft* extension) that will be executed by the node. When the `file` plug content is set, the node will automatically update by creating the input and output plugs corresponding to the sourced workflow inputs and outputs.

## WorkflowProcess Node

The *WorkflowProcess* node works similarly to the *Workflow* node, however, the execution the referenced workflow will run by an external process. By default, the workflow will be executed in a new instance of the Python, however, the node allows to choose Python interpreter the workflow will run in. 

![WorkflowProcess Node](../../images/nodes/workflow_process.png)

The available python interpreters will depend on the environment variable configuration. To allow the *WorkflowProcess* find new python interpreters, it must be added a new variable to the environment with the following format `SHIFT_PROCESS_<NAME OF THE INTERPRETER>`. The value of this variable must be the path to the desired python interpreter.

>[!EXAMPLE]

> > To add Maya's python interpreter as an option for the *WorkflowProcess* the following should be added to the environment variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> To add Maya's Python interpreter as an option for the *WorkflowProcess* the following should be added to the environment variables:
```

> 

> >`'SHIFT_PROCESS_MAYA: "<MAYA INSTALLATION FOLDER>/bin/mayapy.exe"'`

Author: I was thinking of doing it in each instalation page.

> >`'SHIFT_PROCESS_MAYA: "<MAYA INSTALLATION FOLDER>/bin/mayapy.exe"'`

Reviewer 2: ok then, we can let this like an example only.

> >`'SHIFT_PROCESS_MAYA: "<MAYA INSTALLATION FOLDER>/bin/mayapy.exe"'`

Reviewer 3: can we change the formatting of the example? Using "variable": "value" is no legit way of setting a variable in any OS. Can we do:
```suggestion
> In Windows for example:
>`'set SHIFT_PROCESS_MAYA=<MAYA INSTALLATION FOLDER>/bin/mayapy.exe'`

```
or something similar?

> >`'SHIFT_PROCESS_MAYA: "<MAYA INSTALLATION FOLDER>/bin/mayapy.exe"'`

Reviewer 3: yes, whatever decision we take there it is ok to follow the same format for me.

> >`'SHIFT_PROCESS_MAYA: "<MAYA INSTALLATION FOLDER>/bin/mayapy.exe"'`

Author: So, we change the format to use bold instead of code quotes

> >`'SHIFT_PROCESS_MAYA: "<MAYA INSTALLATION FOLDER>/bin/mayapy.exe"'`

Author: Changed to bold enviorment variable and italic path

### Inputs
- **File**: This plug of type [FileIn](../nodes/#plugs) is used to reference the workflow file (*.sft* extension) that will be executed by the node. When the `file` plug content is set, the node will automatically update by creating the input and output plugs corresponding to the sourced workflow inputs and outputs.

> - **DCC**: This plug of type [Enum](../nodes/#plugs) determines the Python interpret to be used for the execution of the referenced workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **DCC**: This plug of type [Enum](../nodes/#plugs) determines the Python interpreter to be used for the execution of the referenced workflow.
```

# Workflow Nodes

> 

Reviewer 3: Can we add a brief text here to explain context of what workflow nodes are used for?

Author: Yes! I completely missed that, thanks

## Input & Output Nodes

> *Input* and *Output* nodes are used to define the required inputs and outputs of a workflow to be executed externally. Setting these nodes is essential to be able to nest workflows or executing the workflow in [batch mode](../../getting_started/basics/batch.md). The custom plugs from these nodes, which should be of type `through`, will act as data pathways, linking information set externally in the workflow to the current workflow and viceversa. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*Input* and *Output* nodes are used to define the required inputs and outputs of a workflow to be executed externally. Setting these nodes is essential to be able to nest workflows or executing the workflow in [batch mode](../../getting_started/basics/batch.md). The custom plugs from these nodes, which should be of type `through`, will act as data pathways, linking information set externally in the workflow to the current workflow and viceversa. These nodes will also be crucial to pass external inputs or retreiving results when executing Shift workflows in Batch mode.

```

Author: The paragraph already mentions this it is used for batch execution. Should we be more specific for what having this nodes means for interactive mode vs batch mode?

Reviewer 3: my bad!

![Workflow Node](../../images/nodes/Input_outputNodes.png) 

## Workflow Node

> The *Workflow* node executes an external workflow different from the workflow the node is located in, allowing, this way, to nest workflows. The node expands its plugs dynamically to enable access to the referenced workflow input and output data.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The *Workflow* node executes an external workflow. This node allows to nest workflows embedding the execution logic of entire Shift workflows in one single node. The node updates its plugs dynamically depending on the sourced workflow file to enable access to the referenced workflow input and output data.

```

Author: Done

![Workflow Node](../../images/nodes/workflow.png) 

### Inputs

- **File**: This plug of type [FileIn](../nodes/#plugs) is used to reference the workflow file (*.sft* extension) that will be executed by the node. When the `file` plug content is set, the node will automatically update by creating the input and output plugs corresponding to the sourced workflow inputs and outputs.

## WorkflowProcess Node

> The *WorkflowProcess* node works similarly to the *Workflow* node, however, the execution of the referenced workflow will be run by an external process. By default, the workflow will be executed in a new instance of Python, however, the node allows to choose Python interpreter the workflow will run in. 
> 
> 
> ![WorkflowProcess Node](../../images/nodes/workflow_process.png)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The *WorkflowProcess* node works similarly to the *Workflow* node, however the execution of the referenced workflow will be handled by an external process. By default, the workflow will be executed in a new instance of the default Python interpreter but the node allows to source and choose different ones. 

![WorkflowProcess Node](../../images/nodes/workflow_process.png)

```

Author: I don't think so now that you mention it. The list of available python processes depends on that variable. If not set, no interpreter will be set and the node will error.

Author: I added more extended explanation and a link to the installation page

> The available Python interpreters will depend on the environment variable configuration. To allow the *WorkflowProcess* find new Python interpreters, it must be added a new variable to the environment with the following format `SHIFT_PROCESS_<NAME OF THE INTERPRETER>`. The value of this variable must be the path to the desired Python interpreter.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The available Python interpreters will depend on the environment configuration. To allow the *WorkflowProcess* to find new Python interpreters, a new environment variable must be set with the following format `SHIFT_PROCESS_<NAME OF THE INTERPRETER>`. The value of this variable must be the path to the desired Python interpreter (.exe file for Windows users).

```

Author: Almost done. I'm waiting to know if we should make specific mentions to windows or not.

Author: It is specified in the example for maya, not the general description

## Input and Output Nodes
*Input* and *Output* nodes are used to define the required inputs and outputs of a workflow to be executed externally. Setting these nodes is essential to be able to nest workflows or executing the workflow in [batch mode](../../getting_started/basics/batch.md). The custom plugs from these nodes, which should be of type `through`, will act as data pathways, linking information set externally in the workflow to the current workflow and viceversa. 

<figure style="width:80%;" markdown>
    <img src="images/Input_outputNodes.png" alt="Input & Output Nodes">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 1</b>: Input & Output Nodes UI.</figcaption>
</figure>

## Workflow Node
The *Workflow* node executes an external workflow. This node allows to nest workflows embedding the execution logic of entire Shift workflows in one single node. The node updates its plugs dynamically depending on the sourced workflow file to enable access to the referenced workflow input and output data.

<figure markdown>
    <img src="images/workflow.png" alt="Workflow Node">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 2</b>: Workflow Node UI.</figcaption>
</figure>

### Inputs

> - **File**: This plug of type [FileIn](../nodes#plugs) is used to reference the workflow file (*.sft* extension) that will be executed by the node. When the `file` plug content is set, the node will automatically update by creating the input and output plugs corresponding to the sourced workflow inputs and outputs.

Reviewer 3: Please add a section to explain the double click functionality

Author: Done

## Input and Output Nodes
*Input* and *Output* nodes are used to define the required inputs and outputs of a workflow to be executed externally. Setting these nodes is essential to be able to nest workflows or executing the workflow in [batch mode](../../getting_started/basics/batch.md). The custom plugs from these nodes, which should be of type `through`, will act as data pathways, linking information set externally in the workflow to the current workflow and viceversa. 

<figure style="width:80%;">
    <img src="images/Input_outputNodes.png" alt="Input & Output Nodes">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 1</b>: Input & Output Nodes UI.</figcaption>
</figure>

## Workflow Node
The *Workflow* node executes an external workflow. This node allows to nest workflows embedding the execution logic of entire Shift workflows in one single node. The node updates its plugs dynamically depending on the sourced workflow file to enable access to the referenced workflow input and output data.

<figure>
    <img src="images/workflow.png" alt="Workflow Node">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 2</b>: Workflow Node UI.</figcaption>
</figure>

> When double-clicking on a *Workflow* node, the referenced workflow will be opened in a new tab inside Shift. Any changes done to the referenced workflow will be picked up by the *Workflow* node and update its plugs if necessary.

Author: ```suggestion
When double-clicking on a *Workflow* node, the referenced workflow will be opened in a new board inside Shift. Any saved changes done to the referenced workflow will be picked up by the *Workflow* node and its plugs will be updated if necessary.

```

### Inputs

- **File**: This plug of type [FileIn](../nodes#plugs) is used to reference the workflow file (*.sft* extension) that will be executed by the node. When the `file` plug content is set, the node will automatically update by creating the input and output plugs corresponding to the sourced workflow inputs and outputs.

## WorkflowProcess Node

The *WorkflowProcess* node works similarly to the *Workflow* node, however, the execution of the referenced workflow will be handled by an external process running in the background.

<figure style="width:80%;">
    <img src="images/workflow_process.png" alt="WorkflowProcess Node">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 3</b>: WorkflowProcess Node UI.</figcaption>
</figure>

> As well as the *Workflow* node, by double-clicking on the *WorkflowProcess* node, a new tab with the referenced workflow will be opened.

Author: ```suggestion
As well as the *Workflow* node, by double-clicking on the *WorkflowProcess* node, a new board with the referenced workflow will be opened.

```
